wp-content/plugins/vf-group-header-block/README.md, before:

# Group Header (block)

A textual introduction aside a group leader using the `vf-summary--profile` Visual Framework pattern.

## Configuration

Related post:

| post_name | post_type |
| --------- | --------- |
| vf_group_header | vf_block |

Post meta:

| meta_key | meta_value |
| -------- | ---------- |
| vf_group_header_heading | [HTML] |
| \_vf_group_header_heading | field_vf_group_header_heading |

### Heading

**Key**: `vf_group_header_heading`
**Value**: string (HTML)

A short heading that introduces the group, for example:

```html
<h1>The Sharpe group brings together an interdisciplinary team of biologists, physicists and computer scientists to build multi-scale computer simulations of a paradigm of organogenesis – mammalian limb development.</h1>
```

## Global Configuration

| option_name | option_value |
| ----------- | ------------ |
| options_embl_taxonomy_term_what | [TERM_ID] |

Option provided by the **EMBL Taxonomy** plugin.

Term name (e.g. "Sharpe Group") used to filter team leader API results.

Commit message:

Begin update of vf-header template, pull in short and long descrip

wp-content/plugins/vf-group-header-block/README.md, after:

# Group Header (block)

A textual introduction aside a group leader using the `vf-summary--profile` Visual Framework pattern.

If a header post is not available in the VF Blocks (or is blank), this plugin will try to use the EMBL Who taxonomy term and pull the group description from the ContentHub.

A "read more" to the about page will automatically be appended. 

## Configuration

Related post:

| post_name | post_type |
| --------- | --------- |
| vf_group_header | vf_block |

Post meta:

| meta_key | meta_value |
| -------- | ---------- |
| vf_group_header_heading | [HTML] |
| \_vf_group_header_heading | field_vf_group_header_heading |

### Heading

**Key**: `vf_group_header_heading`
**Value**: string (HTML)

A short heading that introduces the group, for example:

```html
<h1>The Sharpe group brings together an interdisciplinary team of biologists, physicists and computer scientists to build multi-scale computer simulations of a paradigm of organogenesis – mammalian limb development.</h1>
```

## Global Configuration

| option_name | option_value |
| ----------- | ------------ |
| options_embl_taxonomy_term_what | [TERM_ID] |

Option provided by the **EMBL Taxonomy** plugin.

Term name (e.g. "Sharpe Group") used to filter team leader API results.
